
I had an art teacher named Mr. Case in high school that I enjoyed immensly. He assigned us a simple project he called "The Portfolio Cover". He asked us to think of ten things that represented our lives, and to draw or paint them into a collage on a 24 x 18 sheet of art paper. We then attached them to a large portfolio folder to hold everything we made during the semester. I decided to use color pencil, and as I usually do I took the project to an extreme. It took me nearly 3 nights to fill the page, I mostly just focused on filling the page with logos of various programs I was learning to use at the time. 
In college while I was studying VFX, I needed to make a demo reel to show off my work. I spent a semester building a custom DVD using Cinema 4D and Encore. Per the usual pattern, I filled every button on every page with a 3D transition. Stylizing the Menus more than I worked on the content itself. My aim at the time was to build a DVD menu system with the intention of discovering what a DVD menu COULD be. Once I got everything plugged in, and it was all working great in the interface, I burnt it to a disc and popped it in. It was then I discovered that the complexity of what I had built required jumping back and forth across the disc over and over again, which led to load times of nearly 90 seconds at the start and end of each transition. I Transferred everything over from Encore to DVD Studio Pro, and hit the same wall. The problem was the extraction layer the programs created to facilitate the wysiwig programming style. So I tore it apart with a hex editor, stripped out the abstraction logic, and hardcoded each jump. Final load time was 0.75 seconds.
Near the end of college I also built a version of my portfolio in ActionScript, and started this website. The reults were underwhelming.
A few years later, with HTML5 being all the rage, I started rebuilding. Focusing on honing my PHP skills. It was at this time I added an image sequence I had rendered in Nuke to the background. A simple picture of a server room that I had projected on to cards to fake a parallax effect. As you would scroll down, the frames of the sequence would scrub, and it give the user the impression they were controlling the Y position of the camera in the original 3D scene. I added the original resume generator at this time, learning how to construct PDF documents in javascript. I also started adding snapshotting features for IMDB and GitHub into python scripts that would run as cron jobs on my humble little Godaddy container.
After the shine wore off, I was frustrated with the load times and memory usage of the image sequence. It would quickly blow up to 150MB in memory, and even with a staggered asynchronous loading queue, and cutting edge webp compression, it was just too much. So I rebuilt the Nuke scene in a Javascript Game Engine called PlayCanvas. Cards and camera both the same, the only challenging part was rebuilding the Depth of Field effects as a GLSL pixel shader. I wanted to build the
After my transition, I decided I needed a stylistic refresh. So earlier this year I began work on the Windows95Maze. I also decided to tear into the Bookmarks pipeline idea while I was at it, building everything into Docker Containers that are now running on a Kubernetes cluster hosted on AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service. The cluster has a copy of Firefox running inside of it synchronizing my bookmarks, to generate the Favorites page, Skills Table, and Resume data. I'm planning to add a browser extension soon that will let me record regions of interest with a marquee tool. I'll then use the screenshot option from Firefox headless, and ffmpeg to crop based on the marquee coordinates. Each study subject on the Favorites page will then have an expandable collage.
So in a sense this project is in its 6th version now, and going on 15 years of development. The scope just keeps expanding and I don't really know how to stop it. I recently thought of a name for it though:
<a href="https://github.com/MadisonAster/ResumePlusPlus">Resume++</a>